[DOCS-10824] Run multiple pipelines on the same host guide (#29360)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/observability_pipelines/guide/run_multiple_pipelines_on_the_same_host.md

---
title: Run Multiple Pipelines on the Same Host
disable_toc: false
---

## Overview

If you want to run multiple pipelines on one host so that you can send logs from different sources, you need to manually add the Worker files for any additional Workers. This document goes over how to run additional Workers and the files that you need to add and modify to run them.

## Prerequisites

[Set up the first pipeline](https://docs.datadoghq.com/observability_pipelines/set_up_pipelines/?tab=pipelineui) and install the Worker on your host.

> ## Create another pipeline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create additional pipelines

> [Set up another pipeline](https://docs.datadoghq.com/observability_pipelines/set_up_pipelines/?tab=pipelineui) for the additional Worker that you want to run on the same host. When you get to the Install page, follow the below steps to run the additional Worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Set up another pipeline](https://docs.datadoghq.com/observability_pipelines/set_up_pipelines/?tab=pipelineui) for each additional Worker you want to run on the same host. When you reach the Install page, follow the below steps to run the additional Worker.
```
Can it be one or more additional workers? If so suggest to change to "each additional" Worker.

Author: It's for one Worker, they would have go through these steps again to set up another one.

## Run an additional Worker

> When you installed the first Worker, by default you have:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you install the first Worker, by default you have:
```

- The service binary: `/usr/bin/observability-pipelines-worker`
- The service definition file: `/lib/systemd/system/observability-pipelines-worker.service`, which looks like:

    ```
    [Unit]
    Description="Observability Pipelines Worker"
    Documentation=https://docs.datadoghq.com/observability_pipelines/
    After=network-online.target
    Wants=network-online.target

    [Service]
    User=observability-pipelines-worker
    Group=observability-pipelines-worker
    ExecStart=/usr/bin/observability-pipelines-worker run
    Restart=always
    AmbientCapabilities=CAP\_NET\_BIND\_SERVICE
    EnvironmentFile=-/etc/default/observability-pipelines-worker

    [Install]
    WantedBy=multi-user.target
    ```

> - An environment file: `/etc/default/observability-pipelines-worker`, which looks like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The environment file: `/etc/default/observability-pipelines-worker`, which looks like:
```

Author: Change the list to all use a/an.

    ```
    DD\_API\_KEY=\<datadog\_api\_key\>
    DD\_SITE=datadoghq.com
    DD\_OP\_DESTINATION\_DATADOG\_ARCHIVES\_AWS\_ACCESS\_KEY\_ID=\<redacted\>
    DD\_OP\_DESTINATION\_DATADOG\_ARCHIVES\_AWS\_SECRET\_ACCESS\_KEY=\<redacted\>
    DD\_OP\_PIPELINE\_ID=\<pipeline\_id\>
    DD\_OP\_SOURCE\_DATADOG\_AGENT\_ADDRESS=0.0.0.0:8282
    DD\_OP\_API\_ENABLED=true
    ````

- A data directory: `/var/lib/observability-pipelines-worker`

### Configure an additional Worker

> In this example, another pipeline was created with the Fluent source. To configure a Worker for the pipeline:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, another pipeline is created with the Fluent source. To configure a Worker for this pipeline:
```

1. Run the following command to create a new data directory, updating `op-fluent` to a directory name that fits your use case:
    ```
    sudo mkdir /var/lib/op-fluent
    ```

> 1. Run the following command to change the owner of the data directory to `observability-pipelines-worker:observability-pipelines-worker`. Make sure to update `op-fluent` to your specific directory name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Change the owner of the data directory to `observability-pipelines-worker:observability-pipelines-worker`. Make sure to update `op-fluent` to your specific directory name.
```

Author: Going to keep as is because I think it's clearer for people using screen readers.

    ```
    sudo chown -R observability-pipelines-worker:observability-pipelines-worker /var/lib/op-fluent/
    ```

> 1. Create an environment file for the new systemd service, such as `/etc/default/op-fluent` where `op-fluent` is replaced with your specific filename. An example of the file content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create an environment file for the new systemd service, such as `/etc/default/op-fluent` where `op-fluent` is replaced with your specific filename. Example content:
```

    ```
    DD_API_KEY=<datadog_api_key>
    DD_OP_PIPELINE_ID=<pipelines_id>
    DD_SITE=[datadoghq.com](http://datadoghq.com)

>     DD_OP_DESTINATION_DATADOG_ARCHIVES_AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<aws_access_key_id>

Reviewer 2: We talked about removing these I think, did you want to keep them here? I think we did away with these via IAM roles or similar?

Author: Hey @ckelner! Sorry, I hadn't made the updates yet when reviewed this. I should have now removed all env vars that we said to remove.

    DD_OP_DESTINATION_DATADOG_ARCHIVES_AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<aws_secret_access_key>

>     DD_OP_DESTINATION_DATADOG_ARCHIVES_AZURE_BLOB_CONNECTION_STRING=<connection_string>

Reviewer 2: I think having a second destination here just services as extraneous info/distraction, should we just keep it as simple as possible?

Author: Yes, removed.

    DD_OP_SOURCE_FLUENT_ADDRESS=0.0.0.0:9091
    DD_OP_DATA_DIR=/var/lib/op-fluent
    DD_OP_API_ENABLED=true
    ```
    In this example:
    - `DD_OP_DATA_DIR` is set to `/var/lib/op-fluent`, the new data directory you created in the previous step.

>     - `DD_OP_DESTINATION_DATADOG_ARCHIVES_AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<redacted>` and `DD_OP_DESTINATION_DATADOG_ARCHIVES_AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<redacted>` are environment variables for the Datadog Archives Amazon destination. Replace it with the environment variables for your destinations. See [Environment Variables](https://docs.datadoghq.com/observability_pipelines/environment_variables/?tab=sources).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `DD_OP_DESTINATION_DATADOG_ARCHIVES_AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<redacted>` and `DD_OP_DESTINATION_DATADOG_ARCHIVES_AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<redacted>` are environment variables for the Datadog Archives Amazon destination. Replace them with the environment variables for your destinations. See [Environment Variables](https://docs.datadoghq.com/observability_pipelines/environment_variables/?tab=sources).
```

Reviewer: Also for the link can you move https://docs.datadoghq.com/observability_pipelines/environment_variables/?tab=sources
to the bottom of the page in the proper link formatting?
i.e.
[1]: /observability_pipelines/environment_variables/?tab=sources

Author: All links have been moved down

>     - `DD_OP_DESTINATION_DATADOG_ARCHIVES_AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<redacted>` and `DD_OP_DESTINATION_DATADOG_ARCHIVES_AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<redacted>` are environment variables for the Datadog Archives Amazon destination. Replace it with the environment variables for your destinations. See [Environment Variables](https://docs.datadoghq.com/observability_pipelines/environment_variables/?tab=sources).

Reviewer 2: Similar to my comment above, I think we did away with these in favor or IAM roles or similar right? Maybe I misremembering. Either way I think it just serves as extraneous info/distraction - stick to one destination for the example.

Author: Removed as well

>     - `DD_OP_SOURCE_FLUENT_ADDRESS=0.0.0.0:9091` is the environment variable required for the Fluent source in this example. Replace it with the environment variables for your source. See [Environment Variables](https://docs.datadoghq.com/observability_pipelines/environment_variables/?tab=sources).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `DD_OP_SOURCE_FLUENT_ADDRESS=0.0.0.0:9091` is the environment variable required for the Fluent source in this example. Replace it with the environment variables for your source. See [Environment Variables](https://docs.datadoghq.com/observability_pipelines/environment_variables/?tab=sources).
```
Same with this link

>     - `DD_OP_API_ENABLED` is optional. Set it to true if you want to use the `top` or `tap` commands to get more information about your pipeline components. See [Enable Observability Pipelines Worker API](https://docs.datadoghq.com/observability_pipelines/troubleshooting/#enable-the-observability-pipelines-worker-api) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `DD_OP_API_ENABLED` is optional. Set it to true if you want to use the `top` or `tap` commands to get more information about your pipeline components. See [Enable Observability Pipelines Worker API](https://docs.datadoghq.com/observability_pipelines/troubleshooting/#enable-the-observability-pipelines-worker-api) for more information.
```
and this link :)

> 1. Create a new systemd service entry, such as `/lib/systemd/system/op-fluent.service`. An example of the content for the entry:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a new systemd service entry, such as `/lib/systemd/system/op-fluent.service`. Example content:
```

    ```
    [Unit]
    Description="OPW for Fluent Pipeline"
    Documentation=https://docs.datadoghq.com/observability_pipelines/
    After=network-online.target
    Wants=network-online.target

    [Service]
    User=observability-pipelines-worker
    Group=observability-pipelines-worker
    ExecStart=/usr/bin/observability-pipelines-worker run
    Restart=always
    AmbientCapabilities=CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE
    EnvironmentFile=-/etc/default/op-fluent

    [Install]
    WantedBy=multi-user.target
    ```

>     - The service name is specific to your use case, `<your_use_case_name>.service`. In this example, the service name is `op-fluent` since the pipeline is using the Fluent source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The service name should match your use case, `<your_use_case_name>.service`. In this example, the service name is `op-fluent` since the pipeline is using the Fluent source.
```

>     - The description is for your specific use case, where in this example it is `OPW for Fluent Pipeline`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The description should also match your specific use case, in this example it is `OPW for Fluent Pipeline`.
```

    - `EnvironmentFile` is set to the new systemd service environment variables file you created, which in this example is: `-/etc/default/op-fluent`.

> 1. Run this command to reload systemd:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Reload systemd:
```

Author: Hi! I'm going to keep this because I think it's clearer for someone who is using a screenreader.

    ```
    sudo systemctl daemon-reload
    ```

> 1. Run this command to start the new service:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Start the new service:
```

Author: Same as above

    ```
    sudo systemctl enable --now op-fluent
    ```

> 1. Run this command to verify the service is running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify the service is running:
```

Author: Same as above

    ```
    sudo systemctl status op-fluent
    ```

> You can run the command `sudo journalctl -u op-fluent.service` to help you debug any issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, use the command `sudo journalctl -u op-fluent.service` to help you debug any issues.
```

## Deploy the pipeline

> 1.  Navigate to the second pipeline's Install page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Navigate to the additional pipeline's Install page.
```

> 1.  In the **Deploy your pipeline** section, you should see your second Worker detected. Click **Deploy**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  In the **Deploy your pipeline** section, you should see your additional Worker detected. Click **Deploy**.
```
Just suggesting to change the wording here in case some users create 2 or more additional workers.

---
title: Run Multiple Pipelines on the Same Host
disable_toc: false
further_reading:
- link: "/observability_pipelines/set_up_pipelines/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Set up a pipeline"
- link: "/observability_pipelines/environment_variables/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Environment variable for sources, processors, and components"
---

## Overview

If you want to run multiple pipelines on the same host so that you can send logs from different sources, you need to manually add the Worker files for any additional Workers. This document explains which files you need to add and modify to run those Workers.

## Prerequisites

[Set up the first pipeline][1] and install the Worker on your host.

> ## Create another pipeline

Author: ```suggestion
## Create an additional pipeline
```

    ExecStart=/usr/bin/observability-pipelines-worker run
    Restart=always
    AmbientCapabilities=CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE
    EnvironmentFile=-/etc/default/op-fluent

    [Install]
    WantedBy=multi-user.target
    {{< /code-block >}}
    In this example:
    - The service name is `op-fluent` because the pipeline is using the Fluent source. Replace `op-fluent.service` with a service name for your use case.
    - The `Description` is `OPW for Fluent Pipeline`. Replace `OPW for Fluent Pipeline` with a  description for your use case.
    - `EnvironmentFile` is set to `-/etc/default/op-fluent`. Replace `-/etc/default/op-fluent` with the systemd service environment variables file you created for your Worker.
1. Run this command to reload systemd:
    ```shell
    sudo systemctl daemon-reload
    ```
1. Run this command to start the new service:
    ```shell
    sudo systemctl enable --now op-fluent
    ```
1. Run this command to verify the service is running:
    ```shell
    sudo systemctl status op-fluent
    ```

Additionally, you can use the command `sudo journalctl -u op-fluent.service` to help you debug any issues.

## Deploy the pipeline

> 1.  Navigate to the second pipeline's Install page.

Author: ```suggestion
1.  Navigate to the additional pipeline's Install page.
```

> 1.  In the **Deploy your pipeline** section, you should see your second Worker detected. Click **Deploy**.

Author: ```suggestion
1.  In the **Deploy your pipeline** section, you should see your additional Worker detected. Click **Deploy**.
```
